docs/development/setting-up.md, before:

# Setting up a dev environment

### Prerequisites

- git, any version
- Node.js >=16.16
- NPM >=8.11.0

Generally, we recommend following guidelines from [Node.js Releases](https://nodejs.org/en/about/releases/) to only use `Current`, `Active LTS` or `Maintenance LTS` releases.

### Steps

1. `git clone https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-js.git`
2. `cd swagger-js`
3. `npm install`
4. `npm run build`

### Testing with Swagger-UI

It is often the case that after fixing a bug or implementing a new feature,
developer wants to test his changes in [Swagger-UI](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-ui).
This section will guide you through how to do that.

**1. Clone and install swagger-ui repository**

You'll find complete information about how to do that in swagger-ui [Setting up documentation](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-ui/blob/master/docs/development/setting-up.md).

**2. Clone and install swagger-js repository**

You'll find complete information about how to do that in [Steps](setting-up.md#steps) section of this document.

**3. Link repositories using npm link**

```shell script
 $ cd /path/to/swagger-js
 $ npm run build
 $ npm link
 $ cd /path/to/swagger-ui
 $ npm link swagger-client
```

**4. Make sure npm install is not running**

Open `/path/to/swagger-ui/package.json` in your favorite editor and look for `"predev": "npm install"`
script. Temporarily delete this line.

```shell script
 $ cd /path/to/swagger-ui
 $ npm run dev
``` 

You're now running your version of `swagger-client` inside `swagger-ui`. Test
what you need and continue with following step.

**5. Unlink repositories**

We have to clean up after we're done. Open `/path/to/swagger-ui/package.json` 
in your favorite editor and return back the `"predev": "npm install"` script.

```shell script
 $ cd /path/to/swagger-ui
 $ npm unlink --no-save swagger-client
 $ npm install
 $ cd /path/to/swagger-js
 $ npm unlink
```

Commit message:

feat: bundle ApiDOM dependencies
With this change, we avoid installing ApiDOM
from GitHub Package registry.

docs/development/setting-up.md, after:

# Setting up a dev environment

### Prerequisites

- git, any version
- Node.js >=16.16
- NPM >=8.11.0

Generally, we recommend following guidelines from [Node.js Releases](https://nodejs.org/en/about/releases/) to only use `Current`, `Active LTS` or `Maintenance LTS` releases.

swagger-client is using certain dependencies ([ApiDOM](https://github.com/swagger-api/apidom)) that are hosted on [GitHub packages registry](https://docs.github.com/en/packages/learn-github-packages/introduction-to-github-packages).
Before running `npm install` you need to [authenticate to GitHub Packages](https://docs.github.com/en/packages/working-with-a-github-packages-registry/working-with-the-npm-registry#authenticating-to-github-packages).
You can use your GitHUB PAT (Personal Access Token) or use npm login. More information can be found
in [Working with the npm registry](https://docs.github.com/en/packages/working-with-a-github-packages-registry/working-with-the-npm-registry#authenticating-with-a-personal-access-token) GitHub guide.

### Steps

1. `git clone https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-js.git`
2. `cd swagger-js`
3. `npm install`
4. `npm run build`

### Testing with Swagger-UI

It is often the case that after fixing a bug or implementing a new feature,
developer wants to test his changes in [Swagger-UI](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-ui).
This section will guide you through how to do that.

**1. Clone and install swagger-ui repository**

You'll find complete information about how to do that in swagger-ui [Setting up documentation](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-ui/blob/master/docs/development/setting-up.md).

**2. Clone and install swagger-js repository**

You'll find complete information about how to do that in [Steps](setting-up.md#steps) section of this document.

**3. Link repositories using npm link**

```shell script
 $ cd /path/to/swagger-js
 $ npm run build
 $ npm link
 $ cd /path/to/swagger-ui
 $ npm link swagger-client
```

**4. Make sure npm install is not running**

Open `/path/to/swagger-ui/package.json` in your favorite editor and look for `"predev": "npm install"`
script. Temporarily delete this line.

```shell script
 $ cd /path/to/swagger-ui
 $ npm run dev
``` 

You're now running your version of `swagger-client` inside `swagger-ui`. Test
what you need and continue with following step.

**5. Unlink repositories**

We have to clean up after we're done. Open `/path/to/swagger-ui/package.json` 
in your favorite editor and return back the `"predev": "npm install"` script.

```shell script
 $ cd /path/to/swagger-ui
 $ npm unlink --no-save swagger-client
 $ npm install
 $ cd /path/to/swagger-js
 $ npm unlink
```
